<!DOCTYPE html>
<h1>tis almost the season</h1>
<body>

<p> The basis of pressure swing adsorption (PSA) is that when gases are put under high pressure, the gases are attracted to solid surfaces and hence are adsorbed. This is a proportional relationship, in that the higher the pressure, the more gas is adsorbed. The adsorbent bed is known as a zeolite.

Filtered air enters the PSA generator which contains zeolites that absorb nitrogen and/or argon. This is done at high pressures, and these high pressures cause the gases to be attracted to the solid surface of the zeolites. Purified oxygen can then be separated. Once the oxygen has been collected, the pressure then swings to a low pressure in order to desorb the nitrogen, which can also be collected. As soon as the pressure is reduced again, the gas is desorbed (released). This additionally frees up the adsorbent, ready for the next cycle.

Different gases can be adsorbed by using different solid particles, based on what the gases are more easily attracted to, so this method typically has relatively high product purity, although by-product purity is still being improved. If the zeolite attracts nitrogen, then some or all of nitrogen will be adsorbed when a stream of air is pressurised, and can be released after it is depressurised again. The exiting stream will therefore be oxygen rich, compared to the entering stream, and this oxygen will be collected.  The zeolite can thereafter be reused for another batch. If two adsorbent vessels are used, this process becomes almost continuous (Ruthven, 1990). This is illustrated in figure 3 below.

This is the most suitable method for the production of oxygen for small to medium scale plants (20-100 tons/day). Large-scale plants typically use cryogenic separation (more than 100-300 tons/day). This is also an older technology; hence it has been perfected over the years in terms of adsorbents used, and energy consumption. This is the favoured alternative to traditional cryogenic distillation, as it has a significantly lower energy demand and a high product purity. There are a range of variations of PSA, including vacuum swing adsorption, temperature swing adsorption, vacuum-pressure swing adsorption, and many more. These systems rely on the zeolites to trap nitrogen and hence produce oxygen with a purity of 90{f138f898989465d5c9e37efd3eb7d8d8329acf7c976ad9780193e0f7ee0fd1c4} to 95{f138f898989465d5c9e37efd3eb7d8d8329acf7c976ad9780193e0f7ee0fd1c4}. Different adsorbents are being investigated continuously, in order to improve this process even more. The performance of this process is highly dependent on the pressure, which can be more energy intensive, as greater energy is required for a greater pressure and hence greater performance (Hashim, 2011).

The original pressure swing air separation process uses a zeolite adsorbent that is selective to nitrogen, and hence produces an oxygen rich exit stream. This method is predominately in small scale units, but many modifications have been made to adapt this method for large scale units, to reduce energy demand. Nitrogen can theoretically be recovered from desorption of the zeolite, but this is not of a very high purity, so it is more desirable to use a zeolite that is selective to oxygen. This, however, is still being perfected (Ruthven, 1990). </p></body>
